<!-- Output copied to clipboard! -->



# PARAKEET Discussion


#### **Wednesday, Nov 3rd at 5 pm CEST / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT.**

Scribe: Kelda Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



* Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)
* PATCG & TPAC debrief



#### Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Mehul Parsana (Microsoft)
3. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
4. Sergey Tumakha (Microsoft)
5. Brian May (dstillery)
6. Tamara Yaeger (IPONWEB)
7. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH)
8. Wendell Baker (Yahoo)
9. Angelina Eng (IAB and IAB Tech Lab)
10. Bartosz Marcinkowski (RTBHouse)
11. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)


### Notes:

**Erik Anderson** -
PATCG discussion, for those that didn’t attend I recommended that you look at the minutes:[https://github.com/patcg/meetings/tree/main/2021/10-tpac#minutes](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/tree/main/2021/10-tpac#minutes) 

Do we want to have some breakout groups to go figure things out? It would be great to express preferences there

 We are trying to figure out how to structure work.

PCM .. I am unsure how we’d like to manage the work and explore the proposal path

**Wendell Baker:** 
- the main takeaway for this group and the fledge group as well 

It took months to get these groups going 

 The FB delegation, and perhaps Apple and others ventured that we will be putting their Tech proposals into that group

 It is a bit weird to be holding separate meetings If parties are willing to move over 

**Michael**

I agree with Wendell that our goal is to move over to PATCG

 It is going to take work to nail down what everyone is going to be willing to go with  on a case by case basis

Come to a general shape of the API and then expect we build on this

Measurement is most likely to be the most profitable area to be built out first and pushing on the standards path will come later.

That said we should not stop the work here.

**Brian:** 
Would like the link to the PATCG discussion

It would be great to get a holistic view of what we are building which we do not get in all of the breakout groups 

 However, PATCG is creating a new committee to figure things out, there is a risk of not adding value 

Because we have not found a way forward this seems to be another new committee

Would be good to put our heads together to figure this out 

**Erik**

 Mozilla is becoming more engaged here as well, it will be interesting to see proposals going forward it might make sense to open an ensure around targeting and in parallel get actual data that can help us evaluate how things would actually work.

The same is going on w/ measurement they will not stop working on this but will work on a clear path to unification. 

**Wendell-**

 It seems that we are aligned and I’d recommend that we go back to the PATCG chairs to be a sub-working group 

The W3C has some issues w/ lower status initiatives 
 

That said we are in Q4 and there will be some impact by holidays and the ads industry will be focusing on Q4 Revenue/holiday selling season

**Michael**

To speak to the W3c groups, The PATCG is different .. in  W3c creating a community group w/ the PATCG requires 5 groups agreeing and moving in the same direction

W3c Allows for formal objections before the working group is ready and allows us to get to a consensus.

I also agree that peoples attention will be diverted in Q4.

**Brian**

Q4 constraints are not unique and expect most will have extra work

 I’d like to hear what you’d like to see

**Mehul**

It’s not an easy path to determine what should be worked on along with a technical solution

 Would like to see this group find a way forward to find a common solution and we do need to create more structure to make this happen 

**Angelina**

I've created a quote-unquote task force over on the IAB side for business for the business stakeholders because they currently don't understand or don't can't figure out how to actually get involved. And it's very confusing. So I'm actually going to try and set up some time .. to see if we can get some buyers into the fold. .. I had a meeting last week. There were about 80 people that participated across the ecosystem and they were very confused over how to get involved.

**Erik**

 I think it is great that you are educating and that stakeholders are aware of what’s going on 

 We want to get out of PATCG and working group - standards tend to better if you define things sufficiently 

I am hoping the PATCG will be helpful in illuminating industry consensus 

Uh, educating folks. I think that's a common challenge with Standards efforts. It's just had I've had the right stakeholders and are they at least aware of what's going on and 

And, making sure that, the folks working on these things understand & you know what their perspective is doesn't necessarily mean, you know, we have one big cumbia moment. 

.. Standards tend to be better if you can prove that use defines things sufficiently out to have two different folks you know to different browser vendors or engines implement it.

there are potentially very broad industry consensus, at least around browser vendors on core capabilities to add, and I think if there are other capabilities where some set of vendors believe it's critical to the future of the web we'll have to figure out what that looks like. I think our goal should still always be a multi-implementer interest.

.. Mozilla and or Apple interested in in kind of getting this working to some degree for everyone and having a clear understanding of where there's no alignment and 

Yeah. Things will take time.

**Brian May**

A couple of things. First one is that people in this group think that it makes sense to try and specifically reach out to different constituencies and find representation, and perhaps encourage Angelina to to prompt people that she think might be helpful to this effort to join the groups. 

Or would that just had a lot of conflicting voices and get us to a place where we don't really make any progress?

If there was something clear that says like ad servers, DSP's, ad verification companies should actually be involved in this and that.

**Angela** 

Uh, and the types of roles, right? So is it a developer, engineer, or legal compliance, a marketer or the like? I think that would help, .. I've done so much research on privacy sandbox just to put this presentation together and there's no one place that helps people navigate. 

**Brian**

FLEDGE and PARAKEET are two different models for approaching privacy-sensitive advertising and all under second their history committed by time. 

And I think to Eric's point we may make more progress if we can decompose those two proposals into the various constituent parts and focus on developing the primitives that would be necessary to support those and get buy-in for the primitives. We wouldn't necessarily get by and for all of the primitives, but we could get by and for some of the primitives on all the platforms I would expect.

Maybe I'm being optimistic, but things like a browser-side storage for interest groups both of the proposals have some notion of that. If we could come together and develop a single standard for how that works.

**Wendell** - 

I'll give a little bit of transparency in the feedback I get around my shop when I promote these ideas and having more stakeholders is not interesting… I think for this community there is a track where multiple stakeholders should be organized and given voice and be given a venue to go and talk - talk is good

But the value of PARAKEET and FLEDGE and the origin trial system is a very focused group of individuals who are actually building..So, as I've mentioned before, Brian, hit the note as well. Some of us are along for the ride and are kind of hoping this works out. We don't have budget to play around. We don't have research departments and are desperately looking for revenue.

So getting support for that and getting stuff that works and can run media with profit so-called margin is great. So this venue is the FLEDGE venue, we have high hopes that those are going to come out with actual working code and so the broad spectrum of all possible use cases and what privacy means to me and getting consensus amongst governments and activists. And all that sort of stuff.

Is wonderful, someone should do it, but these venues are of great value because they're focused on actual working codes. So finding a way to drive these processes to a conclusion where something can be put in market. Even trials are really too expensive for us right now. We just don't have the time and energy to just dissipate on building products for Google and Microsoft just to be super Duper Direct, we can't help you guys make more money.

Just can't, so it's gotta be working for us. It's gotta be working, running media and it's it's gotta be kind of stable and operable. So that's what we're looking for and these venues with good working codes. That's where we kind of like to be.

Yeah, you know Logan's run end date. Somebody said that third-party cookies and your whole industry will go away and gave it a date and that excited a lot of panic. Those dates have been pushed back by between two and five years, depending on who you ask...

so that's caused a lot of delays, but if we were to we this group or the other fledged group were able to get working code in that time frame that would really smooth the transition. 'cause then the business people who aren't technical can figure out if they can transition from the old regime to the new regime and what the revenue loss or gain will be

**Mehul**- 

The reason we are thinking of a working group, of course, the agent Chrome is trying to get to a working code and get all thing done, but I think the question of involving broader stakeholders to get. If at all we can get Safari on the same bandwagon and fire folks on the same bandwagon that avoids such and later right, because that's where not Microsoft or Google trying to convince them. Those right activists who talk about privacy are ready to convince them, or some sort of opinion to be formed. So that is one of the reasons. Definitely to see if we can call reduce the fiction of adoption. If you want to call that, but that's.

What are your thoughts on that?

**Wendell** - 

. What I'm kind of referring to is the broad spectrum of plug-in people, the people, systems, plug-in systems, activists, stakeholders, vendors who are looking for broad continuity with their existing business interests. I mean, we've all been in these meetings where they've been derailed by oh. This business process won't work. That business process won't work. I'm sorry the accounting people... If we were to rewind the web back to as it started, none of this was an issue. The media on the web got started 'cause people figured out how to take something that worked and turn out something that approximated. What will line media was on TV and in radio and stuff. So it's important here to go get technology that works. 'cause once it's working and stable the business people can go do the B school thing and figure out. How to do the discounted cash flow based on that infrastructure? But if you don't have infrastructure, it's infinite requirements and and it'll never converge is sort of the sense we have.

**Michael** -

… I admit that this is a little bit unfortunate but just so that everybody has like what I think are reasonable expectations like.

We on Chrome are extremely dedicated to get some working code available for people to actually try as soon as possible. That's what a lot of our work has been going towards that there's been, you know, some amount of convergence between the FLEDGE of the PARAKEET, ideas due to the like discussions we've had in this in the other meeting. Yes, I agree, there's more to go and I look forward to like moving towards further convergence. 

As we go through the process of let's move this stuff into the PATCG  and into an eventual working group and get something that we hope the Nice folks from Mozilla will buy into. Or, you know, broaden to more browsers, etc.

That means that things will change like the result of trying to get more people to buy into a solution is that you end up having to accommodate their goals and desires, in which case that might end up being not backward compatible, and so the price we pay for. Yes, we on Chrome or very interested in getting some working code before third-party cookies go away and shipping something, even if it's not the perfect thing as quickly as possible. 

Is that there's going to be churn down the road, and you know we sort of are stuck with that. We accept that where you know it, it's a price that we are willing to pay and that we think is worthwhile.

 I'm afraid that is, you know, to some extent, bad news, right? We're not going to be able to ship something and then say, OK, that's it we're done. It's going to be stable forever and that that's sort of the downside of let's get something in peoples hands as soon as possible.

**Brian**

so first I wanted to respond to what Michael just said, that I think that if we focus on lower-level APIs then the disruption of any kind of changes to them is. limited the blast radius, as it were, is limited, so I think the more that we can do to try and Identify the building blocks and put them together in a meaningful way to better for all of us to Windows point about getting a lot of voices involved. That's why I suggested that perhaps we can arrange things so that the business people are involved in the improving without web advertising business group and we hear their voices there and they provide input into what we are thinking about. We move the work efforts into the PATCG  as a way of coordinating organizing things and we maintain these individual groups for things like FLEDGE and PARAKEET where we actually put together the things. But we use PATCG  as a way of maintaining coordination between not only Fledge & PARAKEET, but I think that we could increase the coordination to include the measurement side and to the degree that Apple's willing to get involved. Apple and Mozilla also.

**Mehu** 

Yeah, that's definitely a very right thought. ..what role they will have so that we actually walked towards that is going to be important. I know all of us have a slightly different opinion, but it will be good to start forming that so that we can kind of form that working group and When the time comes, sooner is better because then we sort of already have an idea want to construct as primitive, which is what I was. I think trying to highlight as well like the API could keep taking a structure over that

**Erik**

Over time a little bit more on how PATCG is going to work. I think having the measurement folks quickly try to figure out you know what does it like. Look like to take some existing things and you know you don't necessarily want to start with a clean slate, but you also don't want to have it. Probably where someone feels like, oh, a winner has to be picked upfront and then fighting tooth and nail to get it.

**Brian**

Sounds like one of the objectives we should put forth for PATCG is to come up with a limited set of solutions to actively work to make the set of solutions that we arrive at manageable for Web developers.

**Erik**

How to use PATCG- will have to see where this goes  And yeah, I think there are lots of other topics as well. Like I know Facebook's interested in bringing add topic hints over there. Not clear to me what level of interest there is. Across browser vendors, so I think that'll be like a great example of, you know, hey, can we use pass e.g to do?

 

The Web Ad group is a good place for this and getting folks involved on the GH issues

Help us make progress & help provide clarity

And yeah, I guess Angelina is to get all the way back to your question about, you know engagement, I think the web advertising business group is great representing that.  I think you know, not having dozens and more people on the call may not be particularly fruitful. People can review minutes.

**Angelina**

I think there needs to be a way like and I can. I can share the deck to you guys in the next meeting or 'cause I haven't uploaded into Google Docs yet.

**Wendell** 

Will sign off that this is a great direction like A’s bringing up the Biz and stakeholder concerns - separating the Biz conversation in another group is great


* This group supporting technical capabilities is important 
* Then IAB,  Biz group and  can all do their work 

**Angelina**- 

would there be an opportunity to do a mini focus group of what capabilities and usage is available now

If this goes away what will the structure of conversion measurement is going to look like 

**Erik**

Figure out how to educate folks, maybe a small group from this call

Definitely want to make sure that folks aren't, you know, thinking they can, yeah, join a CG and just get educated there, right? I think there's some core set of technical work that folks on make progress on and we need to figure out the how-to get those other artifacts. 

**Brian**

  Angelina, I don't know how involved you are with Pam, but it sounds like they've done a fair amount of work around use cases from the business side and I'm wondering if maybe you can find somebody who's working with Pam that could become more involved. The pram presentation that we got at the improving web advertising business group was pretty good couple of months ago, but they sort of came. Dropped that on us and vanished, and having more regular interactions with him I think would probably be good for everybody.

**Angelina**- 

could have Ambassadors

**Erik**   it would be great to have 

Brian- it would be helpful to collect a biz use cases

**Erik**

Some of this is similar to TPAC last week- some questions being asked -  do we have the right stakeholders

It is great to have enough education 

Want to make sure that folks can’t just join a CG to get educated..

We have a general direction but there are a lot of open questions there

Those that would like more help and engagement please feel free to reach out to us 

**Grant Nelson** - would like to hear more about polyfill 

if we wanted to maybe make some room in Q4, is there anything we need on GitHub or should reach out to you?

**Erik**-

start with GitHub. I think we have an email address there. If something is not covered and you can reach out.

**Brian**-

 would like those discussions to be in a place that they can be reviewed 

**Erik**-  
We prefer GH issues because other folks can then learn from the discussion and where there was confusion.

We will also look at the holiday calendar and theoretically we will meet next on the 17th assuming we have not moved this under the PATCG by then.
