



# PARAKEET Discussion


#### **Wednesday, Jan 12th at 5 pm CET / 11 am EDT / 8 am PDT.**

Scribe: Kelda Anderson

Open discussion to review technical details and open[ GitHub issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues) for the PARAKEET proposal.

If you want to participate, please make sure you join the WICG: [https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)

The setup will be a Microsoft Teams meeting: [Click here to join the meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OTk5MzYwZmUtZjNmMi00MTRjLWFjOTItYzdkM2Q3NmIyYTZl%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2279442ff5-1ecc-4579-99d9-39d3ded3c43d%22%7d)

Or call in (audio only): [Find a local number](https://dialin.teams.microsoft.com/8551f4c1-bea3-441a-8738-69aa517a91c5?id=400194663) Phone Conference ID: 655 825 985# 


## Agenda



* Open Q&A and [Github Issues](https://github.com/WICG/privacy-preserving-ads/issues)



## Attendees (sign yourself in):



1. Kelda Anderson (Microsoft)
2. Erik Anderson (Microsoft)
3. Jeff Kaufman (Google Ads)
4. Fred Bastello (Index Exchange)
5. Nishanth Chandran (Microsoft)
6. Sergey Tumakha (Microsoft Ads)
7. Brain May (dstillery)
8. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
9. Joel Pfeiffer (MSFT)
10. Angelina Eng (IAB Tech Lab)
11. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
12. Brad Rodriguez (Magnite)
13. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
14. Valentino Volonghi (NextRoll)
15. Phil Eligio (EPC)
16. Alex Cone (IAB Tech Lab)
17. Wendell baker (Yahoo)
18. Tamara Yaeger (IPONWEB)


### Notes:

#### Kelda Anderson: 
Open up discussion for Questions or a recap for anything we covered in the previous year.


#### Wendell Baker:
What is the status to this group as to respect to new acquisitions in the Ads world. Microsoft bought a competitor of ours and it seems like Microsoft is now big in the ads business. What is the status of this group with respect to that work? Are we helping that exchange? I realized the deal hasn't closed yet and all you can talk about a lot of stuff, but how should we position this in our thinking?


#### Sergey Tumakha:
We will treat everything as it was and will treat everything as is. This particular group is not part of the acquisition; we will not change the way we think about open source work.


#### Wendell:

 Will ask again as there is more clarity on your side.


#### Michael Kleber:

Are there any folks that are involved in the acquisition in this discussion?


#### Sergey: 
If you look at the polyfill there are the names of the Xander folks

 Paul Farrow and Julien Delhommeau are those involved in this conversation and the WC3.


#### Brian May:

Have the Parakeet folks given any thought to moving / contributing to the PATCG  group?


#### Erik Anderson:

I can try to take that. Yes, we are. I opened the first proposal issue over in that repo to talk about, the work on measurement. I know Facebook is working on this and Mozilla has also posted something.


 Along those lines, and we're trying to get the first face to face, or, you know, kind of extended meeting. We are trying to understand how that group is going to function and how they're going to make progress.


 Taking all the ad serving use cases right now and bringing it over. Obviously if someone else wants to create a proposal and start driving, that will certainly engage there but we are  waiting a little bit to see how this initial kickoff for measurement goes. To make sure we understand what would be helpful as a starting point.


#### Brian: 


 That's a good answer. One thing that I think would perhaps be a natural fit for PARAKEET would be discussions over there about the server side of things, which seems to be coming more and more interesting to folks.


#### Erik: 


 Yeah, I think I saw some chatter on the GitHub issue for that meeting to discuss something along those lines. So certainly, if that's on the agenda, we'll try to represent our viewpoints and how that relates to PARAKEET or measurement or just all up. So yeah, that's a good call.


#### Alex Cone: 


 Not expecting an answer right now, but I am kind of curious at some point like to hear the Edge Team’s official position .. an initial reaction to Facebook's measurement proposal.


 While different from parakeet in the sense that it's not focused on targeting, but it also has this sort of double-blind helper ab model. Curious how you guys are thinking about that whenever you get to pull your thoughts together. If you have some now, I would love to hear them, but I understand that it's probably a little soon.

 
#### Erik: 

I think we are trying to fully understand and evaluate it and see how it would work with FLEDGE and PARAKEET. I think we'll probably have that conversation in the PATCG, but, it certainly seems like an interesting proposal


#### Alex: 
The key thing that I'm thinking of is not even how much it interplays with a FLEDGE or a PARAKEET, but more so, the high-level concept of what happens in a browser versus what happens in servers or server I think is really interesting.


#### Wendell: 


 Well, as we're on the subject, In the later sections of that document. TBD, but there is a statement that there must be business terms and pay to play feature in order to actually run that service. Now why that's interesting here in PARAKEET is we've talked about the PARAKEET concept is being somehow you know, exogenous infrastructure that just exists and there's no pay depending.


 So that's a question we're all interested in... I think Michael answered one of those questions for me back in the day about the TURTLEDOVE FLEDGE concept .. it's always going to come down to who makes this this run and who takes the calls on Sunday night when it doesn't work?


#### Alex: 
Is the intention to keep this group alive post PATCG


#### Erik: 
This is to still be decided, since in the measurement space it seems to take the conversation a while to spin until  we see a clear spot for all the conversations we will keep them around in some form. 


#### Brian:

It's a little off topic, but when you referred to the IETF, it reminded me that I've seen various groups outside of the W. 3C mentioned. I was wondering if anybody got a matrix they might share of the various places where this work is being undertaken. I'm familiar with the IAB, the Prebid work, and W3C, but clearly there's other venues to


#### Erik:

Yeah, if folks aren't aware of the IETF, that's typically where network protocols and servers or server flows are often defined. There's always an interesting where live.  Is it the same set of participants in both groups..  for instance, cookies are  typically defined in the IETF..  HTTP quick links ..  push notifications..

I think it's in the W3C aspect for how the API is exposed to web sites via JavaScript. But then there's a big server to server flow with something called vapid just to toss in another acronym, and that was defined in the IETF, so there are things that reference each other…  I think PATCG  is probably a nice starting point to make sure everyone's oriented and knows what's going on, but there's helper services for measurement that will need to talk to each other, and that's server to server so I expect some kind of IETF type work at some point.


#### Brian: 
that is helpful I will keep an eye out for IETF to see where  they are overlapping 


#### Kelda: 

Call for additional questions and discussion.. We'll give everybody 30 min back, thank you again for coming and participating and helping us move this forward.
